docs: v2 data engine sharding (#1408)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.13.0/nodes-and-volumes/volumes/create-volumes.md

      volumes:
      - name: volv
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: longhorn-v2-replicated-pvc
    ```

More examples are available under the [examples section](../../../references/examples).

### Creating V2 Longhorn Volumes with kubectl (sharding)

> **Note**: Sharding is an Experimental feature. It is intended for evaluation and testing, and is not recommended for production data.

> Sharding distributes a volume's data across multiple disks and nodes using erasure coding, so a volume can exceed the capacity of a single disk or node. It is an alternative to the default replicated layout and is only available with the V2 Data Engine. As with any V2 volume, ensure that the V2 Data Engine is enabled and Longhorn has available block-type disks. In addition, each shard is placed on a distinct node, so the cluster must have at least `dataChunks + parityChunks` schedulable nodes. For more information, see [Add a Block-Type Disk](../nodes/multidisk/#add-a-block-type-disk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sharding distributes a volume's data across multiple disks and nodes using erasure coding, allowing a volume to exceed the capacity of a single disk or node. It is an alternative to the default replicated layout and is only available with the V2 Data Engine. As with any V2 volume, ensure that the V2 Data Engine is enabled and Longhorn has available block-type disks. In addition, each chunk is placed on a distinct node, so the cluster must have at least `dataChunks + parityChunks` schedulable nodes. For more information, see [Add a Block-Type Disk](../nodes/multidisk/#add-a-block-type-disk).
```

1. Use the following command to create a StorageClass called `longhorn-v2-sharded`:

    ```shell
    kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/longhorn/longhorn/v{{< current-version >}}/examples/v2/sharding/storageclass.yaml
    ```

>     The following example StorageClass is created. It defines a `4 + 2` array (four data chunks and two parity chunks) that tolerates two simultaneous failures and requires at least six nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following example StorageClass is created. It defines a `4 + 2` erasure-coded array (four data chunks and two parity chunks) that tolerates two simultaneous failures and requires at least six nodes:
```

    ```yaml
    kind: StorageClass
    apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      name: longhorn-v2-sharded
    provisioner: driver.longhorn.io
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
    reclaimPolicy: Delete
    volumeBindingMode: Immediate
    parameters:
      dataEngine: "v2"
      dataLayout.type: "sharded"
      dataLayout.mode: "erasureCoding"
      dataLayout.dataChunks: "4"        # k: data chunks
      dataLayout.parityChunks: "2"      # m: parity chunks = failures tolerated
      dataLayout.stripSizeKB: "64"      # chunk size in KiB; power of two 4-1024, fixed at creation
      numberOfReplicas: "1"             # must be 1; parity provides fault tolerance
      dataLocality: "disabled"          # must be disabled; chunks span k+m nodes
      fsType: "ext4"
    ```

>     The `dataLayout.*` parameters define the erasure-coding array. See [Storage Class Parameters](../../../references/storage-class-parameters) for the full list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `dataLayout.*` parameters define the erasure-coded layout. See [Storage Class Parameters](../../../references/storage-class-parameters) for the full list.
```

2. Create a Pod that uses the sharded volume by running this command:

    ```shell
    kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/longhorn/longhorn/v{{< current-version >}}/examples/v2/sharding/pod_with_pvc.yaml
    ```

>     A Pod named `longhorn-v2-sharded-test` is launched, along with a PersistentVolumeClaim named `longhorn-v2-sharded-pvc`. The PersistentVolumeClaim references the sharded StorageClass:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A Pod named `longhorn-v2-sharded-test` is launched, along with a PersistentVolumeClaim named `longhorn-v2-sharded-pvc`. The PersistentVolumeClaim references the `longhorn-v2-sharded` StorageClass:
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    metadata:
      name: longhorn-v2-sharded-pvc
      namespace: default
    spec:
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      storageClassName: longhorn-v2-sharded
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 2Gi
    ```

    The Pod mounts the volume at `/data`, the same as the replicated example above.

> For the data layout parameters, supported and unsupported features, and how sharding compares to replication, see [Sharding with Erasure Coding](../../../advanced-resources/v2-data-engine/sharding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about data layout parameters, supported and unsupported features, and how sharding compares to replication, see [Sharding with Erasure Coding](../../../advanced-resources/v2-data-engine/sharding).
```
